# DeepNGlyPred

Abstract
Protein N-linked glycosylation is a post-translational modification that plays an important role in a myriad of biological processes. Computational prediction approaches serve as complementary methods for the characterization of glycosylation sites. Most of the existing predictors utilize the information that the glycosylation site occurs at the N-X-[S/T] sequon, where X is any amino acid except proline. However, recently it has been observed that not all N-X-[S/T] sequons in the protein sequence are glycosylated. Thus, the N-X-[S/T] sequon is a necessary but not sufficient determinant for protein glycosylation.
Here, we report DeepNGlyPred a deep learning-based approach that encodes the positive and negative sequences from N-GlyDE, N-GlycositeAtlas dataset with predicted three-class secondary structures, torsion angles (Φ, ᴪ), relative solvent accessibility, accessible surface area, disordered regions, position-specific scoring matrix, gapped dipeptide, features obtained from deep contextual transformer-based language models like ESM-1b, and Prot_bert. Three feature groups from NetSurfP - 2.0, PSSM and Gapped Dipeptide were combined to train the deep neural network architecture.  DeepNGlyPred exhibited efficiency scores of 72.40%, 81.00%, 0.531, and 77.80% for SN, SP, MCC, and ACC, respectively for the N-GlyDE dataset. Compared to N-GlyDE, GlycoMine, NetNGlyc, GlycoEP_Std_PPP, DeepNGlyPred outperforms these approaches in terms of MCC using the independent dataset obtained from N-GlyDE. Similarly, DeepNGlyPred exhibited efficiency scores of 83.20%, 75.00%, 0.564, and 78.00% for SN, SP, MCC, and ACC, respectively for the N-GlycositeAtlas dataset. Compared to N-GlyDE, GlycoMine, NetNGlyc, GlycoEP_Std_PPP, DeepNGlyPred outperforms them by 13.02%, 31.11%, 112.83%, and 373.94% respectively in terms of MCC at the independent dataset.


DeepNGlyPred: a Deep Neural Network-based approach for human N-linked Glycosylation site prediction 


1. Please install anaconda navigator, 

      a. Programs were executed at anaconda version: 2020.07, recommended to install the same 
      
      
2. Please install following modules with recommended version, 
      python              : 3.8.3.final.0,
      python-bits         : 64,
      OS                  : Linux,
      OS-release          : 5.8.0-38-generic,
      machine             : x86_64,
      processor           : x86_64,
      pandas              : 1.0.5,
      numpy               : 1.18.5,
      pip                 : 20.1.1,
      scipy               : 1.4.1,
      scikit-learn        : 0.23.1.,
      keras               : 2.4.3,
      tensorflow          : 2.3.1.
      
      
3. Please place the DNN Trained with N-GlyDE Dataset and Tested with N-GlyDE Independent Dataset.ipynb, DNN Trained with N-GlycositeAtlas Dataset and Tested with N-GlyDE Independent Dataset.ipynb, 447-feature_test.xlsx, 
   All_feature_Independent_dataframe.csv, trained models like 3080_NetSurfP2.0_PSSM_GD8.h5 and
   Concomitant13.h5 at the same directory where you will 
   execute the python program.
   
   
4. Run DNN Trained with N-GlyDE Dataset and Tested with N-GlyDE Independent Dataset.ipynb and DNN Trained with N-GlycositeAtlas Dataset and Tested with N-GlyDE Independent Dataset.ipynb to get obtain reported result


If you need any further help and individual protein files generated by NetSurfP -2.0 and PSI-BLAST or if you want to predict N-link glycosylation then you can use the programs, furthermore, if you want the feature files to be generated by PSI-BLAST, NetsurfP.0, and Gapped Dipeptide or if you require any help please contact Dr. Dukka B. KC.

                                           *Thank You*
